# dsci-410

## Research Questions

The research questions I will be pursuing are: What populations are served by CAHOOTS, or more specifically, what is the overall breakdown of age groups that are most to least aided by CAHOOTS? How does age breakdown differ over the different classes of calls? How does age breakdown differ between Eugene and Springfield? And how do CAHOOTS age demographics align with census data from Eugene and Springfield? I chose these questions because knowing the specific groups that CAHOOTS serves can help the organization provide proper staffing and training based on the age groups it is most commonly serving. Knowing the age breakdowns can also help CAHOOTS to identify vulnerable groups and develop strategies to support those groups. 

## Data Description

The data that I’m using to address research questions are the CAHOOTS 2021, 2022, and 2023 call data. I received this data from CAHOOTS. I’m using just the CAHOOTS data to address the first 3 questions (What populations are served by CAHOOTS, or more specifically, what is the overall breakdown of age groups that are most to least aided by CAHOOTS? How does age breakdown differ over the different classes of calls? How does age breakdown differ between Eugene and Springfield?). For the first question I just used the age observations column, for the second question I used both the age and reason for dispatch columns, and for the third question I used the age and city columns. For my 4th question I utilized the CAHOOTS data as well as American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates Subject Tables for Eugene (S0101: Age and Sex—Census Bureau Table. (n.d.). Retrieved May 12, 2024, from https://data.census.gov/table/ACSST5Y2022.S0101?g=160XX00US4123850&tid=ACSST5Y2022.S0101) and Springfield (S0101: Age and Sex—Census Bureau Table. (n.d.). Retrieved May 12, 2024, from https://data.census.gov/table/ACSST5Y2022.S0101?q=springfield%20oregon). From the CAHOOTS data I utilized the city and age columns and for the ACS data I used the estimates of the counts of how many individuals there are in each age group (row). An important caveat of the CAHOOTS data is that there are many missing values (roughly ½ of all the data entries were missing an age data input). An important limitation of the ACS data is that it doesn’t provide a continuous count of how many individuals there are at every age, it instead bins the ages into 5 year groups.

